Dr. Hindman

I'm still working on my Dissertation, but my writing is proceeding
slower than I originally anticipated.  (For instance, I have clearly
missed by February 16 deadline!)  In addition, I have also been
thinking about several other (mathematical) projects connected to my
Dissertation which I would like to tell you about in this letter.

In my Introduction I would like to motivate the definitions surrounding
the "noncommutative version" of the Central Sets Theorem by showing
that J-sets should satisfy the conclusion of the Noncommutative van
der Waerden Theorem.  (I'll abbreviate this theorem by NVDW from now
on.)  Recall that in you paper "Ramsey Theory in Noncommutative
Semigroups", you and Bergelson formulated and prove NVDW.

  NVDW.  Let S be a semigroup, l and r natural numbers, and let <d_n>
  be a sequence in S.  If S = U C_i, then there exist C_i, m in N, a
  in S^{m+1}, and n(1) < n(2) < ... < n(m) in N such that
  
  {a(1)a(2)...a(m)a(m+1), a(1)d_{n(1)}a(2)d_{n(2)}...a(m+1), ...,
    a(1)d^l_{n(1)}...a(m+1)} 

  is contained in C_i.

You and Bergelson prove this fact by showing that piecewise syndetic
sets satisfy the conclusion of NVDW via Theorem 2.6 in the paper.
Looking at this theorem, I realized that it's possible to prove that
piecewise syndetic sets are not only J-sets, but that they are J-sets
in which you can choose how many terms of the sequences you multiple
together.  More precisely we get the following theorem. 

Ideally, in analogy with how the strengthened version of VDW follows,
I would like to easily use the definition of J-sets to show that
J-sets satisfy the conclusion of NVDW.  Now I can easily prove, along
with another theorem of mine, the following (possibly) weaker result.

  Thm.  Let S be a semigroup and A a J-subset of S.  Then there exist
  m in N, a in S^{m+1}, and d in S^{m+1} such that

  {a(1)a(2)...a(m)a(m+1), a(1)d(1)a(2)d(2)...a(m+1), ...,
    a(1)d^l(1)...a(m+1)} 

  is contained in A.  

---------

Another project I have been working on is a combinatorial proof of the
central sets theorem.  It turns out that using your combinatorial
characterization of C-sets, I can easily derive the Central Sets
Theorem by the same argument you, De, and Strauss used in "A new and
stronger Central Sets Theorem" paper.  I'm now stuck on trying to
prove two things:

      (1)  Prove combinatorially that piecewise syndetic sets are
      	   J-sets.

      (2)  Prove combinatorially that central sets are partition
           regular. 

Of course, (1) would imply another combinatorial proof of van der
Waerden's Theorem; and (2) would imply another combinatorial proof of
Hindman's Theorem.  (So I guess being stuck here is to be expected.) 

I don't have a good idea on how to proceed with (1).  My only plan for
this problem is to read the original paper by Hales and Jewett and try
to modify their combinatorial methods.  

I feel I'm much closer to figuring out (2).  Let me describe my method
and what I have so far.  Instead of focusing on (2) directly, lets
fo 

      
